Code Book
this file will describe the varaiables, data and R-code used to clean the raw data. 

Source files
Original data files were provided as part of the course assignment and can be found here:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

A full description ofthe data is available here, but a short summary is provided below: 
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
Data Set Information:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket 
of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, 
WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) 
on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear 
acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have 
been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly 
partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the 
training data and 30% the test data. The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) 
were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding 
windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration 
signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a 
Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force 
is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff 
frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating 
variables from the time and frequency domain.

The data files available are the following:
README.txt
X_test.txt
X_train.txt
subject_test.txt
subject_train.txt
y_test.txt
y_train.txt
features_info.txt
features.txt
activity_labels.txt

Cleaning the data: 
The script provided, run_analysis.R will perform the cleaning actions on the above data files, 
as defined in the course project instructions. The code completes the following:
1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average 
   of each variable for each activity and each subject.

In the R script provided, the following commands take place: 
Users read in the activity_labels and features data objects.
Users also read in the X_train data set and add descriptive column names, and then add subject 
  and activity columns to the train object, updating the descriptive column names.
Users read in the X_test data set and add descriptive column names, and then add subject 
  and activity columns to the test object, updating the descriptive column names.
Next, users combine the train and test data objects. 
Users reduce the data object to just those columns containing the "mean()" or "std()" information.
Next, the activity codes are updated to a more descriptive text. 
Finally, a new object is created, which shows the average of each variable, by subject and 
  by activity


